Oracle OpenWorld 2016
================================================================================
https://www.oracle.com/openworld/index.html

# September 18 - 22, 2016 | San Francisco CA
Customers Share Their Success at Oracle OpenWorld

Ask questions, become inspired. Learn and explore with our most successful
customers.


# Conference Session
https://oracle.rainfocus.com/scripts/catalog/oow16.jsp?search=%22Nicholas%20Van%20Wyen%22&search.event=oracleopenworl://oracle.rainfocus.com/scripts/catalog/oow16.jsp?search=%22Nicholas%20Van%20Wyen%22&search.event=oracleopenworld


## Querying Oracle Table from Hadoop/Hive and Querying Hadoop/HDFS from PL/SQL
[CON6359]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Kuassi Mensah, Director, Product Management, Oracle
Kuassi Mensah is Director of Product Management at Oracle; his scope includes:
(i) Java performance, scalability, HA, and Security with Oracle database. (ii)
Hadoop and Spark integration with the Oracle database (iii) Java & JavaScript
integration with the Oracle database (OJVM, Nashorn) Mr Mensah holds a MS in CS
from the Programming Institute of University of Paris. He is is a frequent
speaker at IT events (Oracle Open World, JavaOne, Sangam, OTNYathra, UKOUG,
DOAG, OUGN, BGOUG, etc) & author. @kmensah, http://db360.blogspot.com/,
https://www.linkedin.com/in/kmensah


### Nicholas Van Wyen, Programmer / Developer, Metasystems Technologies Inc.
This session explores the integration and offloading possibilities of an existing
Oracle and Hadoop infrastructure, which are accessible today. It begins by
describing Oracle Table Access for Hadoop, which turns Oracle Database tables
into Hadoop data sources, allowing big data (facts) to be combined with master
data (i.e., products, customers, in Oracle Database) using Hive SQL or
Spark-SQL.  Moving large data sets to Hadoop complicates applications, SQL
queries, and PL/SQL. The session then explains how to move Terabytes of cold
data over to Hadoop/Hive but continue to access them as native Oracle RDBMS
objects that can be queried through your current applications without code
changes.

#### Bio
Nick is a founding member of MTI, an IT consulting firm specializing in high
performance and advanced security for the U.S. Government since 1996. A native
of Washington D.C. Nick is a software advocate and Open Source proponent,
working in C/C++, Java and PL/SQL for extremely large systems. Working with
Oracle for over 20 years, Nick has designed and built several mission critical
systems and services in support of national protection. Currently at USCS
Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the Office of Information and Technology
Nick is assigned to the Targeting and System Analysis Program Office where he
is part of an elite Database Administration Team responsible for the worldi's
largest production Exadata farm. Nick can be contacted at nvanwyen@mtihq.com.
